Nb2workflow news: from jupyter to galaxy tools (#3196)
galaxyproject/galaxy-hub: content/news/2025-06-16-jupyter-to-tool/index.md

---
title: 'nb2workflow: Turning Annotated Jupyter Notebooks into Galaxy Tools'
date: "2025-06-16"  
tease: "Convert your scientific notebooks into reusable Galaxy tools with just a tag."
hide_tease: false
tags: [esg-wp5, esg]
subsites: [all-eu, esg, all]
main_subsite: eu
---

Astronomers have long embraced Jupyter Notebooks as a flexible and powerful environment for data analysis, enabling reproducible science across a wide range of observations and missions. Recognizing this, members of the astronomy and data science communities have developed [nb2workflow](https://github.com/oda-hub/nb2workflow), a program capable to automatically convert and integrate annotated Jupyter Notebooks into platforms like [MMODA](https://www.astro.unige.ch/mmoda/) or Galaxy. 

The approach is based on semantically annotating notebook inputs and outputs using domain-specific ontologies, such as those maintained at [odahub.io](https://odahub.io/docs/guide-ontology/). Once annotated, notebooks can be pushed to a public repository and tagged with a predefined label to trigger a bot that generates the corresponding Galaxy tool.

> This development streamlines the integration of astronomical analysis codes into the Galaxy platform, bridging the gap between interactive scientific computing and scalable, shareable, and reproducible analysis tools. A [Galaxy Training Network tutorialca](https://training.galaxyproject.org/) is currently preparation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This development streamlines the integration of astronomical analysis codes into the Galaxy platform, bridging the gap between interactive scientific computing and scalable, shareable, and reproducible analysis tools. A [Galaxy Training Network tutorial](https://training.galaxyproject.org/) is currently in preparation.
```
